.. python docs

Python Documentation
====================

.. contents::


Types of dCGPs
--------------
Several types of Cartesian Genetic Program are provided in dcgpy. Since the inner computational graph defines, in all cases,
some kind of mathematical expression, we use the term expression in all names for the different classes. 
We essentially provide three types of dCGP:

* **expression**: this is the original CGP as introduced by Miller in 1999.
* **expression_weighted**: this adds to the original CGP formulation weights on each of the graph edges. (original with dCGP - 2016)
* **expression_ann**: this represents an Artificial Neural Network inclusive of biases and weights, via a CGP and allows to learn the model parameters using backproagation. (original with dCGP - 2018)

Each of the above CGPs can operate over different numerical types. For example **expression** can operate over floats, in which case the 
result of evaluating the inner computational graph will be a float, but also on gduals, in which case, the result of evaluating the
inner computational graph will be a gdual (hence it will contain all the program derivatives up to the chosen order.)

Another important type some CGP can operate upon in the vectorized gdual. This type is the same as the gdual type, but its vectorized,
allowing order of magnitude speed ups when a CGP needs to be evaluated over several points (such as in the case aof a loss evaluation)

expression_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.expression_double
    :members:

expression_gdual_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.expression_gdual_double
    :members:

expression_gdual_vdouble
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.expression_gdual_vdouble
    :members:

expression_weighted_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.expression_weighted_double
    :members:

expression_weighted_gdual_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.expression_weighted_gdual_double
    :members:

expression_weighted_gdual_vdouble
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.expression_weighted_gdual_vdouble
    :members:

expression_ann_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. important::
   This Cartesian Genetic Program is able to encode an Artificial Neural Network. Weights and biases are added to the acyclic graph
   as well as extra methods to allow to perform backpropagation (in parallel), to visualize the network and more ...

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.expression_ann_double
    :members:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Single Kernels
--------------------

Kernels (also called non-linearities in the ANN literature) describe the fundamental computational units of a CGP. 
Things like addition, multiplication, trigonomoetric functions are all kernels. The following classes allow the user
the definition of their own kernels able to operate on the choosen type.

kernel_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.kernel_double
    :members:

kernel_gdual_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.kernel_gdual_double
    :members:

kernel_gdual_vdouble
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.kernel_gdual_vdouble
    :members:

Kernels set
------------------

For a list of the available kernels see :ref:`kernels <kernels>`.

kernel_set_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.kernel_set_double

    .. automethod:: dcgpy.kernel_set_double.push_back()

kernel_set_gdual_double
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.kernel_set_gdual_double

    .. automethod:: dcgpy.kernel_set_gdual_double.push_back()

kernel_set_gdual_vdouble
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: dcgpy.kernel_set_gdual_vdouble

    .. automethod:: dcgpy.kernel_set_gdual_vdouble.push_back()

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Symbolic Regression Gym
-----------------------------

Koza Quintic
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_koza_quintic

Problems P1-P7
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
These seven problems are introduced studied in the paper:

Izzo, Dario, Francesco Biscani, and Alessio Mereta. "Differentiable genetic programming." 
European Conference on Genetic Programming. Springer, 2017.

.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_P1
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_P2
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_P3
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_P4
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_P5
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_P6
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_P7

Problems from Vladislavleva
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
These problems are introduced and studied in the paper:

Vladislavleva, Ekaterina J., Guido F. Smits, and Dick Den Hertog.
"Order of nonlinearity as a complexity measure for models generated by symbolic regression via pareto genetic
programming." IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation 13.2 (2008): 333-349. 

.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_kotanchek
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_salutowicz
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_salutowicz2d
.. autofunction:: dcgpy.generate_uball5d